when it comes to social interaction it's
not a problem as long as we're talking
about how to stop people you guys I
asked a question about how to make
friends and no one has a [ __ ] clue
but we talked about how to stop people
and invade their privacy and make them
feel uncomfortable and everyone's got a
[ __ ] answer and they're all so
diverse right what's your social
security number can you open the blinds
when you sleep like oh my god do you
come to this train often or your parents
home right so like okay here's the thing
if you want to make friends you take the
part of you that is funny
because all of you guys are clearly
hilarious and then you just make it not
cringe-worthy right you just make it
about like like pretend like use that
same funny part but then make it about
something that is not invasion of
someone's personal space and privacy
so what are you guys feeling you guys
feel like talking about like meditation
questions about meditation finding
friends in real life habit practical
tips for Vata someone's talking about
becoming a pro gamer ok finding friends
let's do it okay so here's the question
okay let's do friends okay so here's the
first one
hello firstly I had a question about
finding friends in real life it seems
that most regular people meet other
people through the people they already
know what do you do after moving to
another city state or country what would
you do if you've been gaming for years
and realize you have no real-life
relationships fantastic question the
first thing is I think you know when we
think about friendship we think about it
just like a random topic like we think
about it like food or philosophy like no
one really stops ok the mic Peaks let me
see if I can I think that gain is
already down I don't it's all the way
down crackles a bit when I get loud ok
well we will have to fix that later I'll
just try to keep my voice somewhat
monotone whisper whisper ok I can keep
it a little bit further away so let's
see if that helps
so does this sound ok
okay so let's um let's first understand
like how friendship works okay so I want
you guys to understand that just about
anything about your psychology or
anything about your choices or habit or
where you are in life or where you want
to go in life or if you're struggling
with something you can apply sort of
like mathematics engineering and science
to it to try to figure out how it works
it's the first question that I have for
y'all is how does friendship work like
what is the mathematical equation for
you and someone else to become a friend
what do you guys think the variables are
what do y'all think we're gonna try this
be alive common interest personality
traits proximity okay so what we're
gonna do okay I'm gonna use word common
interests all day so do you guys have
friends do you guys have friends that
you don't share interests with you don't
know because you don't have friends pepé
hands so common interests is not one of
the most important things for a
friendship so think about the friends
that you guys have made so far what how
have you made your friends if you guys
like you guys had friends when you were
in grade school Sunday class school and
work okay
so we have so what does that tell you
right so we make friends from school we
make friends for work so what does that
tell us about like what's important to
make a friend oh the book is still being
made we're gonna add to it
environment but what does that mean
environment like what about the
environment like if you say like so
remember the goal of this stream is to
practically help people understand stuff
be around people right so okay let's
just let's debunk these okay let's think
through these okay because we spend a
lot of time there and share struggles
okay that's the that's we're gonna get
into that so first thing is like be
around people so like if I go hang out
at a train station am I gonna make
friends no right so it's not just
proximity of people so the first thing
that you guys need for friendship is a
regular amount of unplanned interaction
okay so if we think about like why do
you make friends at school and work it's
because you get regular exposure that is
unplanned so there's no pressure on
anyone regular exposure that is
unplanned with a group of people that's
the first thing that you need for
friendship and that's the first thing so
the second thing is common cause and I
think Farrell was talking about this
right so if you think about the people
that you make friends with like you make
friends with them because you guys share
like a goal or you all struggle together
you're in know you're in you're in kind
of like a group together I mean actually
transition back to live Plus chat so
that I can look over here so a regular
amount of unplanned interaction and
common cause I think are the two most
important things for friendship
so is it school or work a planned
interaction not between you and the
person you show up to class they show up
to class classes plan but it's not like
you're trying to like get them they're
not coming to class for you and you're
not coming to class for them
a planned interaction is like let's say
that I I call up my buddies I say hey
let's go to the movies
that's a planned interaction
and so the first thing to understand
about friendship is like you guys need
to have regular unplanned interactions
with people and y'all need to have
common cause common interests is helpful
personality like personality stuff is
helpful it doesn't mean that you're
going to become friends with everyone
that you interact with on an unplanned
basis but the most important things for
friendship or unplanned interaction and
common cause so if you guys want to make
friends if we think about that like if
we realize that those are the two most
important variables and then like the
third variable is common interests then
we have to structure a life in which
which we're being regularly exposed to
people without any pressure so this is
why people say like go and volunteer or
like take a class or something like that
you need to go to a place where like you
can see other people on a regular basis
so you don't feel pressured it's not
like you're hanging out at a train
station and be like hey man sitting next
to me on the train do you want to grab
brunch next Sunday and hang out for a
few hours like that's really weird right
but if you see someone in class like
every every day or three times a week
then like after a while like you can be
like hey men like you introduce yourself
one day and then then like common cause
helps a lot so common causes like
studying together for a test so you and
the other person have shared goals
there's something that you guys like
like y'all are y'all are naturally
aligned toward something like if you
guys are at work and like your boss is
an [ __ ] you guys have common cause in
sort of like combining together to like
deal with your boss right so if you guys
want to make friends the first thing is
that so it can be hard when you move to
a new setting country whatever but the
first thing that I do is I'd structure
some activities that you can you're not
like there to like pressure people into
being your friend you're just gonna go
there and do the thing and hopefully you
want to pick activities that other
people are going to show up with like on
a regular basis so the nice thing about
taking your class
is that like presumably there are other
people in the class who are gonna show
up every week and so like that's a good
way to make friends like people make
friends like in a a groups right
Alcoholics Anonymous it's like I mean a
lot of people make like become friends
there because you guys are there and you
show up on a regular basis and then like
you guys are both trying to not drink
and so y'all are looking for people to
hang out with who don't drink and so
like a is like there are a lot of people
that I work with who've made friends
through a that's really important
because if you're in it with a with a
friend group that does it you know
you're trying to change that friend
group then you have to try to you know
get out of that and so finding like
people that share common cause that you
guys have common goals that you guys
have shared struggles that's what common
cause means it's common goals and shared
struggles someone is asking A's
Alcoholics Anonymous so then the next
part of the question is what do you do
if you've been gaming for years and
realize you have no real life
relationship so then like so first it's
important to recognize that right and
understand that that's gonna come with
some feelings of like shame and
discomfort and like feeling like you're
you suck at life so I understand that
those feelings are there and that those
are those are not inappropriate feelings
because you kind of you've started to
kind of fall fall behind in life and
then what happens is you start to like
acknowledge those feelings and then you
move forward right and like think about
think about this guys like so right now
in chat everyone is talking about being
friends why do you guys like what like
how is it that you guys are gonna become
friends with each other it's because you
guys have regular unplanned interactions
like you know when would Reno and
digital dudes show up and chat like
they're not showing up with the express
purpose of hanging out with each other
they're showing up to like listen to the
stream and participate in the stream
and then like over time they kind of
know each other because they like both
talk when they're here right and so this
is a prime example and then you guys
have common cause because y'all are
trying to learn something about your
life or improve your life or get better
at life and so like twitch chat is
actually a fantastic example of you know
the the recipe for friendship which is
that you need regular unplanned
interactions and then you need common
cause and so people are talking about
you know is it re friends the same thing
as regular friends like they're not the
same but I think that they scratch a
similar each so I think that the
friendship that you form with people
online is authentic I think it's real
friendship and you can get a lot of
support and validation and and pride and
joy out of friends and at the same time
like no one over the Internet can give
you a hug and some of the value of
friendship are things that you can't get
over the internet so like we have this
circuit of our brain that I sort of
called the social sonar so a lot of
times gamers have difficulty with social
interactions because since so much of
their social interaction is over the
internet there are a lot of parts of our
brain that aren't active over social
interaction over the internet and so
those parts of our brain become like
rusted and they don't work well so one
good example is like reading body
language so when I talk to gamers about
being socially anxious around like
groups of people part of the reason that
they're socially anxious is because they
are not their brain is not able to
interpret body language of people around
them and why isn't their brain able to
interpret the body language because you
don't interpret body language when
you're hanging out over discord so your
brain much like a language that you
don't speak says like oh like I don't
need to understand body language because
it doesn't affect my social interactions
at all let me turn off that circuit and
so then when you go into the real world
you feel super anxious and you feel like
everyone is judging you because normally
their body language should reassure you
but since your body language the body
language interpreting part of your brain
has been shut off because you spent so
much time on discord
can't reassure you and then you you like
get super-anxious and you think that
everyone's like paying attention to you
and things like that it's because your
social sonar has been disabled it's not
words it's not it's like all the other
stuff it's like sonar you just sort of
detect things so I do think that the
friendships that you form online are
important in real and they're also
missing some important parts so there's
a there's a hormone I mean there's a
neurotransmitter in hormone called
oxytocin F what does that mean anyway
there's there's a oh is it lagging so I
was talking about oxytocin so we're just
gonna talk for a second about oxytocin
then we'll we'll move on so you have a
neurotransmitter or hormone called
oxytocin which forms like emotional
bonds so oxytocin is the hormone that
causes mothers to release breast milk so
you have some hormones that cause the
breast milk production but then there's
another function called breast milk
letdown so if you think about like like
a postpartum mother like their their
milk has I mean their breast has milk in
it and the milk just stays there right
like it doesn't usually leak it just
kind of hangs out there and then what
happens is when you you get a suckling
sensation on the breast from a newborn
infant then that suckling sensation
causes the release of oxytocin oxytocin
causes the stored milk to be like opened
so it's kind of like opening the faucet
for a breast milk for for a newborn I
mean uh postpartum mothers with newborns
the other interesting thing about
oxytocin is it causes breast milk
letdown but it also Foster's emotional
bonding so a lot of infant mother
bonding is through oxytocin a lot of
social interactions are mediated through
like like oxytocin enhances social
bonding so when people have are sexually
active and they cuddle afterward or
cuddling in general causes oxytocin
release any time you hug someone you get
a little spurt of oxytocin
and with that spurt of oxytocin causes
you to form a bond with someone else and
like gives you positive feelings about
them they have positive feelings about
you it sort of helps you feel good it
helps you feel connected to other people
the problem is that online interactions
don't really foster oxytocin release so
even though the friendship is real
you're gonna be like your brain is
literally in your physiology is gonna be
missing something from human contact and
you just can't really substitute that
there was some there was some there were
some interesting trials actually in
schizophrenia where people tried to like
give people oxytocin so that like social
interactions with people with
schizophrenia would get better but those
sort of really good in theory but didn't
really work well yeah can men produce
milk yes so there are some cases of like
tumors and stuff like that where you can
get milk production but not in any any
significant quantity can work
interaction substitute for oxytocin or
cuddling if you're physically no I don't
think you interacting with yourself do
you cuddle with yourself after you jerk
off that's the question right so
generally speaking I don't think you can
create oxytocin by like interacting with
yourself I think you just uh yeah that's
that's what's missing can my pillow
substitute I don't know I don't think so
I mean so I think that like maybe
somewhat but I think that I don't know
exactly what it is about cuddling like I
don't know where the precise line is for
like you know cuddling or touching or
warmth I don't know if it's temperature
or like what
it could be just the pillow I don't know
I I don't think that there are any
clinical trials that measure oxytocin
release after cuddling with a pillow
versus a human being and now we're
talking about body pillows fantastic
okay okay no questions fantastic okay
it's can someone ask a test question in
the stream because it does I just wanna
make sure it's working weighted blankets
are very good for insomnia and if you
have anxiety before bed okay
thanks Brendan okay yep it's working
perfect so let's do another question
okay so on the on the thread okay these
are all great questions thank you guys
what do you think about board games is
an alternative hobby to video games I
attend a weekly meetup at a game shop to
play games for a few hours with some
other people
I feel like board games scratch a
similar intellectual itch while being in
a social environment so that's perfect
right because we're talking about how to
make friends and I think this is a prime
example so if you are a nerd and you're
new to a city find a board game store
because I think that they do offer a lot
of the same things as video games and
our social and are also time-limited
like if I'm gonna play like Agricola or
secret Hitler or codenames or resistance
with friends of mine like that can be a
lot of fun you're interacting with other
human beings you guys are hanging out
and also like you can't play that for 12
hours a day for like six days a week
so I think that board game shops are a
fantastic alternative I think board
games are a fantastic alternative to
video games I think that once again I
don't think video games are evil and I
think you guys should have fun right
like you want to be having fun like
that's the whole point
it's go have fun and go socialize at the
same time and I think it's a great way
to make new friends when you move to new
city what man my hair really needs to I
need to get a haircut
okay second part of the question would
be let's talk about okay this is related
to friends okay second part of the
question be how do you find people who
aren't boring as [ __ ] I love online
interaction because it allows you to
skip all the social posturing lack of
taboos and so on but at the same time
I've experienced what it's like to be
ghosted by people I've known for years
without knowing anything about them so
how do you find people who aren't boring
as [ __ ] okay
so the first thing is like very few
people are actually boring right like if
someone is like if you think someone is
boring as [ __ ] like what what are you
looking for and what are they showing
you like what is that what is like
boring as [ __ ] mean does that mean
because it allows you to skip all the
social posturing lack of taboos and so
on so I mean my guess is that this
person has like maybe like doesn't like
like to play by the rules of social
norms and he finds he or she finds
people that respect social norms like
introducing yourself and not dropping
dropping f-bombs when you meet someone
to be like cumbersome and boring and so
they think small talk and things like
that are boring but these are the ways
that human beings send a warm up to each
other it's also like the way that
regular human beings figure out if
you're a [ __ ] weirdo right because
like if you can't do that it's sort of
like like you could you can you can
blame or criticize as much as you want
to about a social norm and I'm not
saying that those aren't like those
aren't fair criticisms like you can say
that for example people ask the question
how are you and that question no one
actually wants to know how you are it's
just like a social formality right you
can say that that's a waste of time and
space but and that's true but they're
also like some conventions that have
value just because everyone else follows
them and this is something that's like
really hard for people to understand
that like when people criticize social
norms they're like oh yeah that's stupid
we should just all be authentic but like
remember that driving on let's say so I
live in the United States so driving on
the right side of the road is not like
morally better than driving on the left
side of the road there's no inherent
advantage to driving on the right side
of the road
the only advantage of driving on the
right side of the road is because
everyone else [ __ ] drives on that
same side of the road and if I decide
that I want to be like edgy and I want
to be like authentic and I want to be
fresh and not a boring [ __ ] I'm gonna
start driving on the left side of the
road because like why am I gonna be like
a [ __ ] nor me like [ __ ] normies
like I'm not gonna be like that I'm
gonna just drive the way that I want to
and I don't know why these like normies
are always driving on the right and and
like yeah there's no inherent value to
driving on the right side of the road
but there's value in the there's value
in the fact that everyone does it so the
first thing is like why are social
interactions like basic social
interactions so like laborious for this
person right like why can't you just
like make small talk with people like
what bothers you so much about making
small talk with another human being
small talk isn't I mean it's not really
fantastic it's not amazing it's not like
a freshly baked chocolate chip cookie
but it also isn't like you know
six-day-old back and cheese that's been
reheated three times it's just small
talk and I think if you want to get past
small talk you can ask questions to
people that are like interesting and get
you to know someone without being
invasive so you don't ask someone
you know what's your deepest darkest
fear I would say yeah what are your
passions like that's a weird question
ask someone right
you like meet someone at the train
station and they turn to you and they
say what are your passions tell me what
is it that you are passionate about you
know it's like that's kind of weird but
I would ask them hey like what are you
excited about for the next year
like 2019 is coming to a close and is
there anything that that you're really
proud of right that's kind of like you
know so you can ask questions to people
like oh if you have you have you
traveled anywhere interesting recently
like I think travel is a great way to
get people talking about stuff you can
ask about travel and I think that
there's a difference between making
small talk and not saying anything and
also like completely violating social
norms and you know you can learn a lot
about someone and then once they respond
so right so if I ask someone what's
what's tell me about 2019 they say I'm
one year closer to death and then you
kind of laugh and then you say like yeah
so how does it I mean it's one you're
closer to that the good thing or a bad
thing and then you kind of play ball and
if someone says okay so like let's play
this game okay dr. Kanodia is gonna take
your [ __ ] answers and respond to
them in a fun and easy manner so where
have you traveled recently yeah I left
the house this morning to get food and
it's like wow like who is leaving the
house to get food like a good thing or a
bad thing did you eat something
delicious like if you had to if you had
to go through all the trouble of leaving
your house did you at least get
something tasty WIC was it worth it
that's the question you ask right like
was it worth it to leave your house to
get what food you got yeah see like and
deagle I is giving me smiley face emotes
right so like let's get another question
like what okay so this one what traits
are you excited about that's the great
question so I encourage you guys to go
to a party or go Thanksgiving or go to
your holidays and and and like like ask
them about what trains they're excited
about and then watch their confusion and
be like are you excited about any train
sir no I'm confused
don't you love trains they're gonna
think either you're autistic and
obsessed with trains or you can segue
into like Thomas the Tank Engine memes
right what kind of computer do you have
do you come to this train often is not a
good question to ask people asking
people about the regularity of their
travel habits and where they're going to
be at certain times when you first meet
them is not an acceptable question yeah
so yeah asking people if they're here
alone can I have your number no but like
okay so do you guys want to talk about
like how do you ask someone out do you
guys know how to do this your parents go
that's how you ask someone out or your
parents home [ __ ] dachshund creepy
ass [ __ ] into a chat see when it
comes to social interaction it's not a
problem as long as we're talking about
how to stop people you guys I asked a
question about how to make friends and
no one has a [ __ ] clue but we talked
about how to stop people and invade
their privacy and make them feel
uncomfortable and everyone's got a
[ __ ] answer and they're all so
diverse right what's your social
security number can you open the blinds
when you sleep like oh my god do you
come to this train often are your
parents home
right so like okay here's the thing if
you want to make friends you take the
part of you that is funny because all of
you guys are clearly hilarious and then
you just make it not cringe-worthy right
you just make it about like like pretend
like use that same funny part but then
make it about something that is not
invasion of someone's personal space or
privacy yeah that's actually a good
question do you pour milk or cereal
first right like that's that's a good
question
there's a difference between our humor
in Norma humor yeah just don't make it
about stalking people yeah so so instead
of asking okay so this goes downhill so
fast right we start we start with cereal
and milk and then and then we go to this
is the divergence of twitch at okay
what's your favorite cereal too is that
a wig do you wipe sitting or standing
and showering with socks fun so that's a
good one I would ask someone hey if you
ever shower with your socks on
I heard the wildest thing which is
apparently it's supposed to be amazing
do you wipe front to back it's always
front to back
boys and girls yeah you could ask people
that shower with their socks on they'll
think you're [ __ ] weird but they
won't think you're stopping them
who the hell stands to wipe yeah good
point federal so remember it's front to
back otherwise you'll end up with a UTI
okay let's do another question so okay
so trillion is right we didn't answer
the original question
the second part of the question would be
how do you find people who aren't boring
as [ __ ] I'd say like honestly try to
engage them in conversation right so I
think like if you find people boring as
[ __ ] you're probably not like actually
bothering to understand who they are or
what's interesting about them so that's
your problem like people aren't boring
as [ __ ] like it's kind of like saying
you know how do you how do you find
fresh food in the trash can it's like
you don't look in the trash can you go
to a grocery store to find fresh food so
if you're interacting with people and
you think they're boring as [ __ ] like
you should just think a little bit about
like what is it about them that like you
think is boring and why why is it that
you're thinking about why do you find
them boring like try to engage them in a
real conversation and start by a couple
of softball questions like you know do
you take this train often do you do you
close the blinds when you sleep like you
can start with like easy ones to put
them at ease and then you can ask them
the real like heavy hitters that get get
you like really knowing them as a person
which is do you wipes thing or sanding
and and then then you know then you're
done no but I think really just try to
understand that most people have like
relatively interesting lives or relevant
relatively interesting internal
experiences of life and try to engage
them on that level try to find out what
they're interested about so if you want
to be interested in someone get them
talking about what they're interested
about they could be really fascinating
like if someone's passionate about like
fishing like I don't care about fishing
but I have a friend who's really likes
to fish and it's really cool to hear him
talk about fishing like you learned
something you know if there are people
who are interested in something get them
get them talking about what they're
interested in you'll probably learn
something you'll probably more be more
interesting I'd love to go deep-sea
fishing in the Caribbean it's just not
something that you know I don't I didn't
grow up fishing is it true that someone
will like you more if you let them talk
about themselves versus you do the
talking I think generally speaking yes
like I don't think that so I think you
have to be careful about the phrasing of
that question is it true someone will
like you more if you
them talk about themselves versus you do
the talking so I think you have to be
careful because you can't really make
someone like you so you should step away
from the idea that if you do X Y or Z
that a particular person will like you
at the same time I think that a lot of
people in conversation tend to be pretty
narcissistic case in point I'm just
talking to myself for two hours and I
love it right this is fun for me so I
think the big problem is that a lot of
people are very narcissistic like a lot
of extroverts are very narcissistic and
as a result the general advice that
people tend to give about how to be
successful is targeted at a minority of
the population which are extroverts and
narcissistic so a lot of times people
you know if you get people let people
talk about themselves I think that's
really the better thing it's not so much
yeah like you said let them talk about
themselves so if they want to talk about
themselves let them talk about
themselves but it's not making them talk
about themselves sometimes people go too
far and they're like drilling people
with questions because they get this
idea okay people need to talk about
themselves and then they'll like me so
if I want to be like liked in a social
interaction I need to drill people with
questions so let is yeah you use the
word lab so I think use the right word
and so I think let is the prime word
right so you engage someone in a
conversation that allows them to talk
about themselves and if they feel so
inclined you let them but if they're
introverted and prefer to hear other
people talk then you pay attention to
that and you notice it and then you
start talking the other thing that you
can do you know we were talking about
this in recovery coach training is you
can just call attention to what is and
so for example you know if you're at a
party and you don't know anyone you can
walk up to people and say hey my name is
all oak I'm a friend of so-and-so's but
I just realized like I thought that he
was gonna invite different people but I
realized I don't know anyone at this
party nice to meet you
period how do you think that goes across
right that's great
so if you're both introverted what you
should do is you should walk up to
someone and you could tell them hey is
it okay if I stand here and not talk to
you for a little bit can we just hang
together and listen to music try that or
you could you could go to a party and
you can say yeah so how three nine seven
nine it says I really dislike how the
world is centered around extroverts even
the workplace are there ways to make it
more advantageous for introverts yeah so
you should you should understand that
like the world only thinks it's designed
for extroverts and if you're an
introvert you just have to play to your
strengths so you don't have to try to be
an extrovert you just need to understand
that your strengths are different and
then you can engage people just as well
like you can get promoted so I'll give
you guys kind of a couple of examples
from my clinical practice so I was
working with a guy who was concerned
that he wasn't gonna get promoted
because he doesn't as he puts it fill
the room when he when he's like in it so
like he works with other colleagues and
like one of his colleagues does a really
good job at like what he calls filling
the room so their presence is like known
anytime they're in the room they are
they're like they're loud they're
boisterous they come across as confident
they make jokes they're likable and so
this person was concerned because
there's they're up for promotion so it's
it's the introvert versus this guy and
he's concerned that the other dudes
gonna win because he's just like like
this my patient was kind of my patient
was kind of like intimidated and was
concerned that he was going to get
passed over for promotion so the more
that we were talking about it it's not
that my patient had a problem
connecting with other people they just
didn't want to be like loud in front of
a room and so what my patient is really
good at has good relationships around
the office as long as they're one-on-one
because they're really good at like
going and grabbing coffee with a
co-worker or grabbing lunch like as long
as it's small intimate situations and so
I think if you're an introvert just
understand that like you can still get
most of the things that extroverts get
not by necessarily becoming an extrovert
but just by playing To Your Strengths so
if you're like lobbying to get promoted
which you need to do is have small
interactions with individual people and
and like have there gonna be like way
more meaningful and when it comes time
to like reviews or like when your boss
starts asking your coworkers like
they're gonna speak very highly of you
and then people are saying that you can
have a big presence if you're an
introvert absolutely so I have a big
presence and I'm an introvert right so
it's a skill that you can learn so I
love like I mean I love being at home
for a week and doing absolutely nothing
I don't have to see another human being
I'd be fine on a desert island for a
week by myself and if you if you're an
introvert just understand that your
strength isn't in the one-on-one right
it's kind of like you know there's like
solo queue and there's part EQ it's not
like one is better than the other if you
like to solo queue solo queue you can
still play the game if you so look you
like it's not Q the way you want to and
that's just how it is